In the last lecture we get set up with angle of fire and we could already see the power it offers us
with this real time updating.
Now back in the new training component.
Let's look at an alternative to value changes.
The downside of value changes was that it only gives us well the value of our documents.
And if you have a look at the firebase database here the value is the part on the right here.
It doesn't include their ID which is actually kind of the name of the document you could say.
And therefore it's true that as metadata.
So let's change this to snapshot changes.
This is a different listener or event listener which also contains some data to see what's inside.
Let's subscribe.
We will get a result which I simply want to lock to the console so that we can see what's inside it
and it will temporarily remove this exercises so that we don't get an error.
Now back in the application let's quickly log in with some dummy credentials and we still get an array.
But now the objects in there actually look at it differently.
We get a type which indicates which type of change occurred and each year they were all added to our
local data collection you could say so or to our array we're having in this local annular app and we
get a payload and then the payload we get a document snapshot which you can access and where you can
actually get the idea of the document.
Now the idea is nice but as you can see what about the values of the document.
While we only got a document reference here where we would have to actually execute an extra method
to get the data that's inside it but the documents snapshot is a way for us to get Demetra data at least
the ID.
So how do we now also extract the value.
There is a special method you can execute.
So here where we get the result let's quickly loop through all the results.
So with a simple form off loop maybe resolve this an array of items.
Remember that.
Now we can simply console log response or resoled payload Dawk data.
Now that's a Meffert And let's see what this prints we now save this and we lock back in
you now get the actual values.
So they are extractable from the data you get here.
So with snapshot changes you get the best of both worlds.
You can still access the data in your document but you also get meta data like the IDs.
And if we combine this with an observable operator we can actually map our server side data in exactly
the format we need to be in an exercise model.
So with ID name duration calories without date and state.
So now here what I'll do is I'll simply at this map operator which has shown in the slide earlier this
is an extra Yes.
Operator.
That can be used on any observable and snapshot changes of course gives us an observable.
Otherwise we couldn't subscribe map as an operator which we need to import.
So we should import map from our X-Trace slash operators like this map then gets exactly the same data
as result would have received.
Now we know that this is essentially our dark data you could call it or Doc irrate Maybe not want to
want to do is I want to map this into an array of exercise objects.
So what I'll do is all simply use dark array and call map on that.
And then this is now not the are extra as operator but Dawk array is an array of objects so map now
can be executed on it.
Since this is a normal javascript array there I will get my individual document and I want to return
a javascript object where we have an ID could be dog payload dog ID.
So here I'm just drilling into Does object we're getting back from fires to where and where I get the
other data too.
Here I will simply use the spread operator in excess dot payload dock data.
This method does not return an object we just Brinda these objects.
You're on the right where each object has the calories duration name properties and the spread operator
these free dots I'm pulling these properties out of the returned object and add them to this object
which I return.
So now I'm returning this object here inside this inner map function which is executed on the stock
array.
My goal is now to return this map array which is now simply an array of objects that look exactly like
our exercise model.
So now if I subscribe to this I should see exactly that.
So here if I simply Konsole log result to check this and I go back to the application and lock back
in like this then I get an array of four objects where we have ID calories duration and name.
This is how we successfully map the data we get back and how we utilize the power of observables.
Now we can get rid of Subscribe and re assign this to this exercises which now really isn't observable.
That includes an exercise array because keep in mind the optics we return here are exactly in that format
the warning I'm getting here is an error or this is actually correct.
Now here it's not picking up that this will successfully pull out all these fields.
So to circumvent this problem I'll manually assign name to dot payload docked data name.
I know that the name feel a little bit there all assigned ration to dock payload dock data duration
and I'll assign calories to dock payload dock data calories.
So this is the long work of what I had previously with the spread operator just to fix this error.
Now with that we can use this exercise as a template again and in there we use the async pipe to automatically
subscribe to that.
And now we get exercises which look like in our model.
So I can again use exercise ID here for de-value.
Now with this if we go back to the application and lock back in we again see that after a while we get
all these exercise this year as they are stored on the server.